okay in this video we're going to look
at how to simplify a nested fraction
here we have y minus 2i minus 2y minus 7
over 7 over 35 over 21 plus 7 over 3 y
so let's drink with it's a complicated
thing like yes let's do it a little bit
at a time a little bits at a time so
first of all this 7 this is kind of a
block should have a fraction in a
fraction multiply the top fraction here
all this by 7 and all this by 7 now
that'll simplify things out will the 7
over 7 will cancel out we'll get a 7
times y which gives us 7 y minus 2y
minus 7 over I'm sure we can see
ourselves ok 7 down here 21 that's 3
times 7 so we can 7 on top 7 on bottom
set which is no it cancels out so we got
35 over 3 but we have the 7 here 7 here
owes it cancelled out plus 7 times 7 set
them on top 7 on top we have 7 squared
that's 49 over 3y okay it's more simple
than it was let's take it a step further
7 y 2y okay we now have let's rewrite
that as 5y try career where you guys
were need to see it 5y minus 7 over 3 35
3 ok we need to simplify further though
we sell these fractions in the bottom
and that's just kind of obnoxious who
wants to deal with that
so fresh sheet of paper do not be afraid
to use fresh sheets of paper you keep
your work you work simple and clear it
will pay dividends and make your work
much easier okay so we have right here
on top we have 5y minus seven what do we
do - here is simplifying let me back up
just a second we need to simplify so
let's multiply 3y on top and on bottom
that'll simplify the bottom down here so
on top we'll have 3y times 5y minus
seven oh you gets it okay and on the
bottom here we'll have huh let's see 3y
times 35 over three 3s will cancel out
we're left with 35 y 3y times three 49
over 3y okay well that's the three wives
will cancel out were left with 49 okay
nice this is a much simpler fraction
question let's see can we factor
anything down here because in general
you want to make sure you factor
everything you're gonna you might miss
something okay so let's see we can
factor out of seven out of both of these
terms that would give us
I'll see 3y over seven 5y minus seven
over oh look at that we have a 5y over 7
over 5 y over seven those two will
cancel out we're left with 3y over seven
as our final answer